When my uncle was working on his masters, I remember him talking often about this concept of "Communities of Practice". While it has all the elements of the sort of an industry-specific buzzword that was probably popular at the time, the idea has stuck with me over the years. The idea of immersing yourself in the groups who are doing — or at least trying to do — whatever it is you want to be doing makes perfect sense to me. The problem is, I'm a textbook example of an introvert and although I'm far better at the public-facing pleasantries of adulthood now than I ever used to be, I still cringe at the thought of things like "networking" as an activity that needs to be checked off a list.

So how do you discover and engage in a Community of Practice when you don't really want to be in front of people? As luck would have it, tech is full of introverts and a special thing happens when introversion is a prominent trait amongst the members of a group – we tend to design groups that embrace that introversion and turn it into something that people can more easily navigate. Because of good chunk of tech happens over the web, online CoP's lean into the more casual and asynchronous aspects of forming bonds remotely. The Pandemic, for all of the needless devastation it brought, also included an upside in many of these online groups beginning to grow in terms of inclusion and instruction.

This is a collection of some of my favorite Communities of Practice. Over the years I've admired from a safe distance or been directly involved with them; so it makes sense to include them in this brain dump.